  EMAIL_INTEGRATION_CONFIG  ¶

Returns a JSON object that specifies the email notification integration,
recipients, and subject line to use for an email notification. This is a
helper function that you use to construct an integration configuration object
for the [ SYSTEM$SEND_SNOWFLAKE_NOTIFICATION  ](../stored-
procedures/system_send_snowflake_notification) stored procedure.

See also:

    

[ Using SYSTEM$SEND_SNOWFLAKE_NOTIFICATION to send notifications
](../../user-guide/notifications/snowflake-notifications) , [
SYSTEM$SEND_SNOWFLAKE_NOTIFICATION  ](../stored-
procedures/system_send_snowflake_notification) , [ INTEGRATION  ](integration)

##  Syntax  ¶

    
    
    SNOWFLAKE.NOTIFICATION.EMAIL_INTEGRATION_CONFIG(
      '<email_integration_name>',
      '<subject>',
      <array_of_email_addresses_for_to_line> )
    

Copy

    
    
    SNOWFLAKE.NOTIFICATION.EMAIL_INTEGRATION_CONFIG(
      '<email_integration_name>',
      '<subject>',
      <array_of_email_addresses_for_to_line>,
      <array_of_email_addresses_for_cc_line>,
      <array_of_email_addresses_for_bcc_line> )
    

Copy

##  Arguments  ¶

` '  _ email_integration_name  _ '  `

    

Name of the email notification integration to use.

` '  _ subject  _ '  `

    

Subject of the email message.

The subject cannot exceed 256 characters in length.

` _ array_of_email_addresses_for_to_line  _ ` .  ` _
array_of_email_addresses_for_cc_line  _ ` .  ` _
array_of_email_addresses_for_bcc_line  _ `

    

ARRAYs of the email addresses to include in the “To:”, “Cc:”, and “Bcc:” lines
of the message.

You must specify email addresses of users in the current account. These users
must [ verify their email addresses  ](../../user-guide/notifications/email-
notifications.html#label-email-notification-verify-address) .

If the ALLOWED_RECIPIENTS property is set to a list of email addresses in the
[ email notification integration  ](../../user-guide/notifications/email-
notifications.html#label-create-email-notification-integration) , the email
addresses must be in that list.

Call the [ ARRAY_CONSTRUCT  ](array_construct) function to construct each
ARRAY.

Note

You cannot send an email notification if you only specify the “Bcc:” line.

##  Returns  ¶

A JSON-formatted string that specifies a notification integration for the [
SYSTEM$SEND_SNOWFLAKE_NOTIFICATION  ](../stored-
procedures/system_send_snowflake_notification) stored procedure to send.

For example, suppose that you pass in the notification integration name `
'my_email_int'  ` with the following subject line and list of email addresses
for the “To:” line:

    
    
    SELECT SNOWFLAKE.NOTIFICATION.EMAIL_INTEGRATION_CONFIG(
      'my_email_int',
      'Updates',
       ARRAY_CONSTRUCT('person_a@example.com', 'person_b@example.com')
    )
    

Copy

The function returns the following JSON-formatted string:

    
    
    '{"my_email_int":{"subject":"Updates","toAddress":["person_a@example.com","person_b@example.com"]}}'
    

Copy

The following example sends the same notification with an additional list of
email addresses for the “Cc:” line. Note that this example passes NULL for the
“Bcc:” addresses to exclude the ` bccAddress  ` property from the returned
object.

    
    
    SELECT SNOWFLAKE.NOTIFICATION.EMAIL_INTEGRATION_CONFIG(
      'my_email_int',
      'Updates',
       ARRAY_CONSTRUCT('person_a@example.com', 'person_b@example.com'),
       ARRAY_CONSTRUCT('cc_person_a@example.com'),
       NULL
    )
    

Copy

The function returns the following JSON-formatted string:

    
    
    '{"my_email_int":{"subject":"Updates","toAddress":["person_a@example.com","person_b@example.com"],"ccAddress":["cc_person_a@snowflake.com"]}}'
    

Copy

The following example sends the same notification with an additional list of
email addresses for the “Bcc:” line:

    
    
    SELECT SNOWFLAKE.NOTIFICATION.EMAIL_INTEGRATION_CONFIG(
      'my_email_int',
      'Updates',
       ARRAY_CONSTRUCT('person_a@example.com', 'person_b@example.com'),
       ARRAY_CONSTRUCT('cc_person_a@example.com'),
       ARRAY_CONSTRUCT('bcc_person_b@example.com')
    )
    

Copy

The function returns the following JSON-formatted string:

    
    
    '{"my_email_int":{"subject":"Updates","toAddress":["person_a@example.com","person_b@example.com"],"ccAddress":["cc_person_a@example.com"],"bccAddress":["bcc_person_b@example.com"]}}'
    

Copy

##  Examples  ¶

See [ Using SYSTEM$SEND_SNOWFLAKE_NOTIFICATION to send notifications
](../../user-guide/notifications/snowflake-notifications) .

