# `isb-cgc-bq.CPTAC.copy_number_gene_level_hg38_gdc_current.md`

## Column details

* [STRING]    `project_short_name`
  - Project name abbreviation; the program name appended with a project name abbreviation; eg. TCGA-OV, etc.
* [STRING]    `case_barcode`
  - Original case barcode, eg TCGA-DX-A8BN
* [STRING]    `primary_site`
  - Anatomical site of the cancer under investigation or review
* [STRING]    `sample_barcode`
  - TCGA sample barcode, eg TCGA-12-1089-01A. One sample may have multiple sets of CN segmentations corresponding to multiple aliquots; use GROUP BY appropriately in queries
* [STRING]    `aliquot_barcode`
  - TCGA aliquot barcode, eg TCGA-12-1089-01A-01D-0517-02
* [STRING]    `Ensembl_gene_id`
  - The Ensembl gene ID from the underlying file, but stripped of the version suffix -- eg. ENSG00000185028
* [STRING]    `Ensembl_gene_id_v`
  - The Ensembl gene ID from the underlying file, including the version suffix -- eg. ENSG00000235943.1
* [STRING]    `gene_name`
  - Gene name eg. TTN, DDR1
* [STRING]    `gene_type`
  - The type of genetic element the reads mapped to, eg. protein_coding, ribozyme
* [STRING]    `chromosome`
  - Chromosome, possible values: chr1-22, and chrX
* [INT64]    `start_pos`
  - 1-based start chromosome position of isoform
* [INT64]    `end_pos`
  - 1-based end chromosome position of isoform
* [INT64]    `copy_number`
  - The weighted median of the strand copy numbers. Gene-level copy number data is generated by intersection of copy number segment and gene ranges. It is possible for one gene to overlap with multiple segments, and in this case, copy_number, min_copy_number and max_copy_number could take different values. In particular, the copy_number value is calculated as the median, weighted on length of overlapped bases, of segment copy numbers from all overlapped segments.
* [INT64]    `min_copy_number`
  - The lowest copy number for overlapped segment (copy number variant only).
* [INT64]    `max_copy_number`
  - The highest copy number for overlapped segment (copy number variant only).
* [STRING]    `case_gdc_id`
  - Unique GDC identifier for this case (corresponds to the case_barcode).  Can be used to access more information from the GDC data portal like this:   https://portal.gdc.cancer.gov/files/c21b332c-06c6-4403-9032-f91c8f407ba10
* [STRING]    `sample_gdc_id`
  - Unique GDC identifier for this sample (corresponds to the sample_barcode), eg a1ec9279-c1a6-4e58-97ed-9ec1f36187c5  --  this can be used to access more information from the GDC data portal
* [STRING]    `aliquot_gdc_id`
  - Unique GDC identifier for this aliquot (corresponds to the aliquot_barcode), eg 7fbfdb3e-1fd2-4206-8d2e-7f68e4a15844  --  this can be used to access more information from the GDC data portal
* [STRING]    `file_gdc_id`
  - Unique GDC identifier for this file (corresponds to the file_barcode)  --  this can be used to access more information from the GDC data portal like this: https://portal.gdc.cancer.gov/files/c21b332c-06c6-4403-9032-f91c8f407ba17

